chore(blog): add asyncapi vscode preview goes web now available in your browser 🚀 (#4484)
asyncapi/website: markdown/blog/vsasyncapi-preview-extension.md

## Why This Is a Big Deal

This change removes a major friction point for AsyncAPI adoption. Think about it: how many times have you wanted to quickly check an AsyncAPI file in a GitHub repo but didn't want to go through the hassle of cloning it locally?

Now contributors can review specs directly on GitHub, teams working in cloud-first environments don't need local VS Code installations, and newcomers can experiment with AsyncAPI without any setup. It's especially useful for open-source maintainers who spend a lot of time reviewing specs in pull requests.

## Demo

Watch the AsyncAPI VS Code Preview extension working seamlessly in your web browser. This demonstration shows how to install the extension in VS Code web, open an AsyncAPI document, and use the preview functionality to render beautiful documentation directly in the browser without needing a local VS Code installation.

**Demo Overview:** The video demonstrates opening a GitHub repository in vscode.dev, installing the AsyncAPI Preview extension, opening a sample AsyncAPI YAML file, and executing the preview command to generate interactive documentation in the web browser.

> <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/JcS1VRyYmhE?si=DlqqYs3PmJtROTvF" title="AsyncAPI VS Code Preview Web Demo - Browser Extension Walkthrough" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Reviewer: The way the video is embedded in the  blog isn't accessible

Please use this format `<YouTube id="DlqqYs3PmJtROTvF" />` like this

> <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/JcS1VRyYmhE?si=DlqqYs3PmJtROTvF" title="AsyncAPI VS Code Preview Web Demo - Browser Extension Walkthrough" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<YouTube id="DlqqYs3PmJtROTvF" />

```

---
title: 'AsyncAPI VS Code Preview Goes Web: Now Available in Your Browser'
date: 2025-12-07T06:00:00+01:00
type: Community
tags:
  - vscode-extension
  - webview
cover: /img/posts/vs-asyncapi-preview/image.webp
authors:
  - name: Ruchi Pakhle
    photo: /img/avatars/ruchip16.webp
    link: https://twitter.com/Ruchicodess
    byline: AsyncAPI Maintainer & TSC Member
excerpt: 'AsyncAPI VS Code Preview extension is now web-compatible. Preview AsyncAPI files directly in your browser using vscode.dev or github.dev.'
---

> 

Reviewer 2: NGL, the article heavily resembles the one written by AI, because almost all the sections overlap with each other and telling basically the same things over and over again with a slightly different wording.

All the info in the sections below can be combined, made more concise and coherent to better express the idea of how the feature of web compatibility benefits the extension, different categories of users, and AsyncAPI in general:

- With this release, the extension is now fully web-compatible. That means ... 
- What Changed Under the Hood?
- Why Does This Matter?
- Spreading the Word
- What's Next?

FYI @thulieblack

Reviewer: Thanks Anthony, @Ruchip16 please take note

For years, the AsyncAPI VS Code Preview extension has been helping developers visualize and work with AsyncAPI documents directly inside VS Code. But until now, you needed a full desktop installation of VS Code to use it.

With this release, the extension is now fully web-compatible. That means:

✨ **Open any GitHub repo in vscode.dev or GitHub.dev**, and you can instantly preview AsyncAPI files in your browser.

> 🌐 **No local setup required** — just your browser and an internet connection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
🌐 **No local setup required**, just your browser and an internet connection.
```

> 🔄 **Works consistently across desktop and web**, providing the same preview experience.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
🔄 **Works both in web and desktop**, providing consistent preview experience.
```

## What Changed Under the Hood?

Making the extension web-compatible required several technical improvements:

- **Removed Node.js-specific modules** like `fs`, `path`, and external dependencies that are incompatible with browsers
- **Introduced lightweight browser utilities** (`pathUtils`) for cross-platform file handling
- **Removed EDAVisualizer integration** (unmaintained, incompatible with web mode)

> - **Updated VS Code dependencies** (`vscode` and `@types/vscode`) to ensure web extension compatibility

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Introduced lightweight browser utilities** `pathUtils` for cross-platform file handling
- **Updated VS Code dependencies**, like `vscode` and `@types/vscode` to ensure web extension compatibility
- **Removed Node.js-specific modules** like `fs`, `path`, and external dependencies that are incompatible with browsers
- **Removed EDAVisualizer integration**, as it is unmaintained and incompatible with web mode
```

## Why Does This Matter?

AsyncAPI adoption is growing quickly, and many contributors explore specs directly from GitHub repositories. Web compatibility lowers the barrier for:

📖 **Contributors reviewing AsyncAPI specs on GitHub** - No need to clone repos locally just to preview files
🚀 **Teams adopting AsyncAPI in cloud-first workflows** - Work entirely in the browser

> 💡 **New users experimenting** without needing to install VS Code

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
📖 **Contributors reviewing AsyncAPI specs on GitHub** - No need to clone repos locally just to preview files
🚀 **Teams adopting AsyncAPI in cloud-first workflows** - Work entirely in the browser
💡 **New users experimenting** - No need to install VS Code
```

> This is a **huge usability improvement** that makes AsyncAPI more accessible to everyone. Whether you're working with public repositories or have access to private ones, you can now preview AsyncAPI files directly from GitHub with just a few clicks!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is a **huge usability improvement** that makes AsyncAPI more accessible to everyone. Whether you're working with public or private repositories, you can now preview AsyncAPI files directly from GitHub with just a few clicks!
```

## How to Try It Out

> 1. Open any repo with AsyncAPI files on [vscode.dev](https://vscode.dev)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Open any repo with AsyncAPI files on [vscode.dev](https://vscode.dev). For example, the [`spec`](https://vscode.dev/github/asyncapi/spec/tree/master/examples/simple-asyncapi.yml).
```

> 2. Install the AsyncAPI Preview extension (now web-compatible)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Install the AsyncAPI Preview extension (id: `asyncapi.asyncapi-preview`)
```

3. Open a `.yaml` or `.json` file and run **AsyncAPI: Preview Document** from the Command Palette

> 4. That's it! Your AsyncAPI docs will render beautifully in your browser

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

That's it! Your AsyncAPI docs are now rendered beautifully in your browser.
```

## Demo

Watch the AsyncAPI VS Code Preview extension working seamlessly in your web browser. This demonstration shows how to install the extension in VS Code web, open an AsyncAPI document, and use the preview functionality to render beautiful documentation directly in the browser without needing a local VS Code installation.

> **Demo Overview:** The video demonstrates opening a GitHub repository in vscode.dev, installing the AsyncAPI Preview extension, opening a sample AsyncAPI YAML file, and executing the preview command to generate interactive documentation in the web browser.

Reviewer 2: Duplicates the paragraph above

```suggestion
```

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/JcS1VRyYmhE?si=DlqqYs3PmJtROTvF" title="AsyncAPI VS Code Preview Web Demo - Browser Extension Walkthrough" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

> **Accessibility Note:** This video includes visual demonstrations of the AsyncAPI extension interface. For a text-based description of the steps shown, please refer to the "How to Try It Out" section above.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

## Spreading the Word

This web compatibility represents a significant step forward for AsyncAPI tooling accessibility. Here's how we can make the community aware of this improvement:

- **Share your experience** on social media when you try the web extension
- **Demonstrate it during team meetings** to show how easy AsyncAPI adoption can be
- **Contribute to discussions** in the AsyncAPI community Slack about web-based tooling
- **Write about your use cases** and how web compatibility improves your workflow

## Maintenance Mode

This extension is now in maintenance mode:

- We'll continue updating dependencies and ensuring compatibility
- No new major features are planned currently

> - Community contributions for bug fixes and improvements are welcome

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Release Status

This extension is now considered as a maintenance release:

- Doesn't have new major features planned
- Gets updated dependencies to ensure compatibility
- Welcomes community contributions for bug fixes and improvements
```

> ## What's Next?

Reviewer 2: It seems that I've already read this info throughout the sections above
